---
title: "Approach"
tagline: "Natural sound"
description: "I aim to capture your music in a warm and natural sounding way."
date: "2024-09-25T17:52:41-07:00"
draft: false

---

When you work with me, you can expect a production process that taps into the
natural way we perceive sound. My focus is on preserving the authenticity and
warmth of your performance, ensuring your music doesn’t sound artificial or
overly processed. I work with timeless, classic sounds—especially acoustic
instruments—while integrating subtle, well-placed synthesizers when it enhances
the music.

<!--more-->

I draw inspiration from engineers like Al Schmitt and Andrew Scheps, both of
whom bring different philosophies to recording and mixing. Al Schmitt's approach
emphasizes simplicity, using minimal equalization and compression to maintain
the purity of the sound. Andrew Scheps, on the other hand, is known for
embracing more complex digital workflows, layering effects, and using parallel
processing to create rich, dynamic mixes. In September 2023, I attended a
week-long seminar with Scheps in France, which deepened my understanding of how
to achieve an analog warmth in a digital context. Seeing his hands-on approach
to mixing inspired me to bring more flexibility and creative possibilities into
my own work.

The recording environment is a key part of my process. Whether we’re working in
a professional studio, a rehearsal room, or an unconventional space, I’ll help
select the best location to capture your sound. My acoustically treated home
studio ensures clear and balanced recordings, but if we go off-site, my mobile
rig still delivers high-quality results. I know how to avoid common problems
like boxy or overly roomy sound, using creative mic placement and adapting to
the environment.

Off-site recording can be more labor-intensive, but it has its merits. If you're
looking to capture music in an interesting or unique space, I’m well-equipped to
handle the challenges while maintaining great sound quality.

Microphone choices and placement are critical to capturing your music at its
best. I’ll carefully select and position the microphones to suit the instruments
and the space, making sure we address potential issues right at the source. This
ensures that the recording has the natural tone and balance we need, so the
majority of the work is done before we even start mixing.

I use high-quality microphones and analog preamps to bring out the clarity and
depth in your recordings. My gear is chosen to ensure that your music sounds
natural and true to your original performance, providing the best possible
signal for the ADC converter.

When it comes to mixing, I offer an iterative process where we exchange mix
notes and take our time so the mix can mature. My purpose is to help you realize
the full potential of your musical ideas, and this collaborative back-and-forth
ensures that the final mix aligns with your vision. Drawing on both minimalist
and more layered approaches depending on the project, I mix in the box with
flexibility, using the tools and techniques best suited to bringing out the
essence of your sound.

While I don’t handle mastering, I leave minimal work for the mastering engineer.
My mixes are balanced and loud, providing a strong foundation for final touches.

